Why am I learning backend engineering?
This means I will get to build real systems, understand there workflow processes and familiarize myself with the inner workings of a system. Backend systems are the backbone of entire systems, even the Artificial Inteligence, from how they work to how they fail, everything lies with the backend.

Why permissions exist in the first place? 
The linux system can have many users. Permissions is how the system decides who is allowed to do what to do what to which files. Without permissions, any user on the mission could read, modify or delete someone else's file, including system files.

When you type https://github.com into your browser and press Enter — what actually happens before the page appears?
1. The browser needs to find Github's address, it will look up the ip address of github.com
2. The browser opens a connection to that address. A Transmission Control Protocol allows the communication between the browser and the server to be established.
3. Because it is HTTPS, they do a security handshake. A Transport Layer Security handshake, this means that the browser and the server agree on how to encrypt the communication so nobody in between can read it.
4. The browser sends a HTTP request to the server, in this case, it'll be a GET request
5. Github's server sends back a HTTP response, the response includes a status code indicating what has occured. (e.g 200 -OK, 500 - Server error)
6. The browser renders the page. It receives the html and shows the page on the browser
DNS lookup - TCP Connection - TLS handshake - HTTP request.


Host github.com:443 was resolved - the DNS resolution was successfully resolved, transforming the name to it's IP address

TLSv1.3 (OUT), TLS handshake, Client hell, TLSv1.3 (IN), TLS handshake, Server hello - machine says hello, github says hello back, the agreement to encrypt the communication between the server and the browser.
SSL certificate verify ok - the certificate is secure and verified correctly
[HTTP/2] [:method: GET] - acquiring the source
[HTTP/2] [:path: /] - it shows the main root page

When you search for https://github.com, the browser converts it into numbers since the computers cannot understand human language. The numbers is the ip address ( like a home address) where the server hosting or that is responsible for showing github.com is located. The browser on your screen, it then talks to the server where github.com is, after it receives a response, that means a channel or connection will be made. They will then agree to encrypt (secure, for it to be a secret) the data so as to not be read in between. The browser sends a request telling the server as to what it wants, the server will then respond back with what has occurred, whether it has succeeded or not. The browser then finally shows what you see on the screen, the github landing page.

So, how a server works. The server that I have just built:
First of all, the server is always listening to a specified port, in this case, it is port 8000. It says, when a request comes on port 8000, notify me immediately. So, it is always listening for requests. When somebody visits a routing, let's say "http://localhost:8000", it immediately receives the request and sends back a response, a status code of 200 means the request and the response were transmitted successfully, this means it is OK, so, that is in that route, a response will be returned, in this case "Hello from Arthur's server." When the route is /about it will return what is specified in the server, but if a route that has been stated is not found in the server, it will return error 404, not found. The server is always running and can only be stopped manually.

I built a raw http server in python for the first time. The server was on port 8000 and after starting it, it was constantly listening requests that would come and arrive at the port, then immediately send out a response depending on what request has been received
I dunno if I should say things broke, but, yeah, I guess some things broke while writing the few lines of code of starting the http server. There was standalone functions that I was setting up but ended writing it inside my class, which caused the server to not function properly, I fixed it by writing it outside of the class hence becoming a standalone instead of a class method. 
I was able to understand how and what happens from the moment something is looked up on the internet. From the DNS lookup, TCP Connection, TLS handshake and finally the HTTP request and HTTP response. I also understood why the linux system contain permissions, it decides who is allowed to do what to which files and folders.
New terms learned were TLS handshake(Transport Layer Security) - When the browser and the server come to an agreement on encrypting their communication.
A TCP(Transmission Control Protocol) -  Allows a connection to be established between the browser and the server.
DNS Lookup - The computer does not understand human language, so it looks up for the IP address of the domain name of the specified search.


What does the with statement do? Why is it better than just calling open() directly? What would happen if you deleted content.txt and then hit the / route?
The with statement enables the file that has been read from to be properly closed after being read from. If open() is just called, the file that is read from will only remain open and will not be closed, unless we add an f.close() property at the end. If content.txt is deleted and the I happen to hit the / route, it will return a FileNotFoundError: No such file or directory: 'content.txt' error.

hash map - a data structure where every value has a unique key, and lookup by key is instant regardless of how many items are in it.

.get("zzz000") → None
.get("zzz000", "not found") → not found
.get("abc123", "not found") → https://google.com
 what you think .get() is doing differently from short_codes["zzz000"]?
 .get() never crashes. When the key exists, it returns the value, and if the key does not exist, it does not crash, but instead, it returns something safe.
 When a fallback is not provided, it returns None, but if provided, it will return what is there.
 
When it comes to storing data in a python dictionary, this means that it cannot survive a restart. This is because, variables store their data in the memory, so, it only runs when it is needed, it is retrieved from the memory. But when it comes to storing it in a database, that means it can survive a restart. It won't disappear even after a restart, it will still exist.
 
 Data that survives a restart is called - "persistence"
 
What is a database and why does it exist?
A database is some sort of a storage system that is used to store data. It is used for retrieving of data and sending it where it is needed. It organizes data into tables and rows and enforces structure.

What does SQL stand for and what is it used for?
SQL - Structured Query Language. It is used to design the database schema. It is the language used for creating, inserting, selecting, editing, updating and deleting data.

What do you think CREATE TABLE, INSERT, and SELECT might do — based on the words alone, before you look anything up?
'CREATE TABLE' It brings a table into existence. 'INSERT' this means it puts data into an empty table. 'SELECT' This allows for the table specified to be viewed, all the rows and columns and seeing what data is stored in there.
